1) Pretend you made it. Something important was going on in your life and you poured strong feelings into it. What was going on? What were those feelings?
2) Pretend you made it, but nothing special was going on in your life and you had no strong feelings. Describe what you liked about this thing you created.
3) Pretend you made it and are very dissatisfied. Why are you dissatisfied with it?
4) You made it as a gift for someone you know (a real person in your life). Who? How did he/she feel about your gift?
5) Imagine this work of art as medicine. What is the disease? What are the symptoms? How does this medicine cure it?
6) Imagine this work of art as poison. It destroys whoever experiences it. Describe the effects of this poison, the course of deterioration.
7) Imagine that everyone on the globe owned this work of art or all infants were repeatedly exposed to it. What would be the effects?
8) What is someone most apt to notice the first time she encounters this work of art?
9) What would you notice about this work of art if you had never encountered any other works in its medium (any other novels, movies, ballets, or whatever)?
10) What tiny detail in this work says more about it than any other?
11) Is this work male or female?
12) What other work of art would it marry?
13) What works of art do they have for children?
14) Imagine this work of art as part of an evolutionary process. What work did it evolve from? What work will it evolve into?
15) This work is the only human artifact transported to Mars, the only evidence they have about humans. What guesses or conclusions would they reach about humans on the basis of this work?
16) Imagine your work of art as evolving into different media (poetry, novels, movies, paintings, music, ballet, etc., etc.). Describe two or three of these new works of art. See what these evolutions tell you about the original work.
17) High art/low art: describe ______ as though it were in the opposite category from the one it usually occupies. (For example, describe Paradise Lost as a soap opera.)
18) Anonymous folk art/signed art made by individual artist: describe ______ as though it were in the opposite category from the one it usually occupies. (For example, describe a tribal chant as though it were a Beethoven symphony.)
