1) Think of a particular moment in which this object was meaningful or important to you. Close your eyes and take yourself back into that moment. Bring back the reality of the object and the scene for a few moments. The time of day. The time of year. The air. The smells. Your feelings.
2) If you had never seen the object before, what would you notice when you first looked at it?
3) If you knew it fairly well, what would you notice when you looked at it?
4) If you knew it better and longer than anyone else–if you knew it closely for a whole lifetime–what would you see when you looked at it?
5) Tell two or three different ways you might take it apart.
6) Tell what it's like to take it apart and then to take apart the parts till you get down to its basic ingredients. (Go fast. Don't worry.)
7) Imagine a different world in which this object was made of completely different ingredients. What would they be? Tell the advantages and disadvantages of this new arrangement.
8) Tell how this particular object came to exist. (Not this kind of object. That is, if you are talking about a pencil, don't tell how pencils in general came to exist. Tell how this particular pencil came to exist: where it was made; where the wood, lead, and rubber came from; how they came to be put together.)
9) Pretend it came to exist in a different way and tell what it was like.
10) Tell the history of this particular object since it first existed. 
11) Tell its history for the last five minutes.
12) Tell how this kind of object came to exist (for example, pencils in general).
13) Tell another story of how this kind of object came to exist, but this time make the story a kind of a love story too.
14) Think of as many ways as possible of grouping a whole bunch of these objects. (In the case of pencils, for example, by length, by color, chewed/unchewed, free/paid for, by color of lead, etc., etc.)
15) Think of a lot of different ways it is actually used.
16) Tell three ways it might be used, but isn't.
17) Tell a mystery story of how it came to be used in one of those ways.
18) Tell three ways it could not possibly be used.
19) Tell a science fiction story of how the world changes in such a way that it is used in one of the ways you just called impossible.
20) If this object were an animal, what animal would it be? 
21) If it were a person, who would it be?
22) If it could speak, what would it tell you about yourself that you weren't aware of?
23) Tell three things it might stand for or remind you of. (For example, a pencil might stand for a tree, school, or writing.)
24) Imagine you are much richer than you are and think of something it might stand for. Imagine you are much poorer than you are and think of something it might stand for.
25) What might it stand for if you were much older than you are? Much younger?
