1) How is your mood affected by being there?
2) Imagine being there for a whole year. How would that make you better? How worse?
3) Imagine you have just seen, in only five minutes, the whole history of this place since the beginning of the world. Briefly tell this history.
4) Imagine your body is the whole world. Where on your body is ______?
5) If someone said "It's a ______ day," what kind of a day would it be?
6) Imagine you have always been blind. Describe your place briefly.
7) Let the place describe you.
8) Your place is an animal. What animal is it? 
9) Your place is a person. Who?
10) Name a story, a song, and a movie your place reminds you of. 
11) What is the first thing that comes to mind which your place would never remind you of?
12) What other place does your place make you think of?
13) In what weather is your place most itself?
14) Some places have a proper name all to themselves–like "Chicago." Other places only have a general name they must share with similar places–like "bathroom." Give your place the opposite kind of name from the one it has.
15) How does this new name change things. (For example, how would your feelings be different? What things would you notice now? What would you not notice now? Would things hap­en differently there now?)
16) Find as many of your place's rhythms as you can. (For example, find things that happen there at regular intervals– whether they happen every second, every month, or every thousand years. Or any other sorts of rhythms you notice.)
17) Name as many things as you can that only happen there once. Are there any rhythms among any of them?
18) Think of your place as if it were old and near death. Now tell what place it was when it was only a child.
19) Think of your place as if it were a young child or young animal. Now tell what place it will grow up to be.
20) If "______" stands for the regular name of your place, what does the following sentence mean: "If you do that again, I'm going to ______ you"?
21) Imagine your place was the whole universe and you had always lived there. Tell how you and your neighbors explain the beginning of the universe. How do you folks think the universe is going to end?
22) Think of your place as if it is carefully planned in every detail. Now describe it briefly from this point of view.
23) Think of your place as if everything just happened by accident, chance, and luck. Describe it from this point of view.
24) Think of your place as if it is haunted. Tell about it (for example, how it became haunted; what it does to people it doesn't like).
25) Imagine an anti-universe where everything is opposite or backwards from the way we know it. Describe your anti­place in this anti-universe.
